CALL FOR PAPERS

26th SYMPOSIUM ON IMPLEMENTATION AND APPLICATION OF FUNCTIONAL LANGUAGES - IFL 2014

NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY/BOSTON, USA

OCTOBER 1-3, 2014

http://ifl2014.github.io

We are pleased to announce that the 26th edition of the IFL series
will be held at Northeastern University in Boston, USA. The symposium
will be held from 1st to 3rd of October 2014.

Scope
-----

The goal of the IFL symposia is to bring together researchers actively
engaged in the implementation and application of functional and
function-based programming languages.  IFL 2014 will be a venue for
researchers to present and discuss new ideas and concepts, work in
progress, and publication-ripe results related to the implementation
and application of functional languages and function-based
programming.

Following the IFL tradition, IFL 2014 will use a post-symposium review
process to produce the formal proceedings. All participants of IFL
2014 are invited to submit either a draft paper or an extended
abstract describing work to be presented at the symposium. At no time
may work submitted to IFL be simultaneously submitted to other venues;
submissions must adhere to ACM SIGPLAN's republication policy:

    http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Policies/Republication

The submissions will be screened by the program committee chair to
make sure they are within the scope of IFL, and will appear in the
draft proceedings distributed at the symposium. Submissions appearing
in the draft proceedings are not peer-reviewed publications. Hence,
publications that appear only in the draft proceedings do not count as
publication for the ACM SIGPLAN republication policy. After the
symposium, authors will be given the opportunity to incorporate the
feedback from discussions at the symposium and will be invited to
submit a revised full article for the formal review process. From the
revised submissions, the program committee will select papers for the
formal proceedings considering their correctness, novelty,
originality, relevance, significance, and clarity.

Submission Details
------------------

Submission deadline draft papers:                          September 8 
Notification of acceptance for presentation:               September 10
Early registration deadline:                               September 11
Late registration deadline:                                September 17 
Submission deadline for pre-symposium proceedings:         September 24
26th IFL Symposium:                                        October 1-3 
Submission deadline for post-symposium proceedings:        December 15
Notification of acceptance for post-symposium proceedings: January  31 2015
Camera-ready version for post-symposium proceedings:       March    15 2015 

Prospective authors are encouraged to submit papers or extended
abstracts to be published in the draft proceedings and to present them
at the symposium. All contributions must be written in English. Papers
must adhere to the standard ACM two columns conference format. For the
pre-symposium proceedings we adopt a 'weak' page limit of 12
pages. For the post-symposium proceedings the page limit of 12 pages
is firm. A suitable document template for LaTeX can be found at:

    http://www.acm.org/sigs/sigplan/authorInformation.htm
    
Papers should be submitted online at https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=ifl2014
    

Topics
------

IFL welcomes submissions describing practical and theoretical work as
well as submissions describing applications and tools in the context
of functional programming. If you are not sure whether your work is
appropriate for IFL 2014, please contact the PC chair at
samth@cs.indiana.edu. Topics of interest include, but are not limited
to:

•  language concepts
•  type systems, type checking, type inferencing
•  compilation techniques
•  staged compilation
•  run-time function specialization
•  run-time code generation
•  partial evaluation
•  (abstract) interpretation
•  metaprogramming
•  generic programming
•  automatic program generation
•  array processing
•  concurrent/parallel programming
•  concurrent/parallel program execution
•  embedded systems
•  web applications
•  (embedded) domain specific languages
•  security
•  novel memory management techniques
•  run-time profiling performance measurements
•  debugging and tracing
•  virtual/abstract machine architectures
•  validation, verification of functional programs
•  tools and programming techniques
•  (industrial) applications

Peter Landin Prize
------------------

The Peter Landin Prize is awarded to the best paper presented at the
symposium every year. The honoured article is selected by the program
committee based on the submissions received for the formal review
process. The prize carries a cash award equivalent to 150 Euros.

Programme committee
-------------------

Sam Tobin-Hochstadt, Indiana University (Chair)
Rinus Plasmeijer, Radboud University Nijmegen (Co-Chair)
Atze Dijkstra, Utrecht University
Colin Runciman, University of York
Graham Hutton, University of Nottingham
Mary Sheeran, Chalmers University of Technology
Patricia Johann, Appalachian State University
Matthew Fluet, Rochester Institute of Technology
Josef Svenningsson, Chalmers University of Technology
Małgorzata Biernacka, University of Wroclaw
Peter Achten, Radboud Univerity Nijmegen
Laura Castro, University of A Coruña
Hai Paul Liu, Intel Labs
Kathryn Gray, Cambridge University
Lars Bergstrom, Mozilla Research
Lindsey Kuper, Indiana University
Nicolas Wu, Oxford
T. Stephen Strickland, University of Maryland
Xavier Clerc, INRIA


Venue
-----

The 26th IFL will be held in association with the College of Computer
and Information Science at Northeastern University. It can be reached
quickly and easily by public transport.
